---
title: Installing Dashy using Docker
date: 2022-05-31 17:55:00 -500
categories: [guides, docker]
tags: [servers,guides,homelab,docker,dashy]  # Tag names should always be lowercase
published: true
---

# Deploy with Docker

Dashy has a built container image hosted on Docker Hub. You will need Docker installed on your system.

Run the following command in the terminal:

```bash
sudo docker run -d \
  -p 8080:80 \
  -v /root/my-local-conf.yml:/app/public/conf.yml \
  --name dashy \
  --restart=always \
  lissy93/dashy:latest
```

Explanation of the above options:

`-d` Detached mode (not running in the foreground of your terminal)

`-p` The port that should be exposed, and the port it should be mapped to in your host system [host-port][container-port], leave the container port as is

`-v` Specify volumes, to pass data from your host system to the container, in the format of [host-path]:[container-path], you can use this to pass your config file, directory of assets (like icons), custom CSS or web assets (like favicon.ico, manifest.json etc)

`--name` Give your container a human-readable name

`--restart=always` Spin up the container when the daemon starts, or after it has been stopped

`lissy93/dashy:latest` This last option is the image the container should be built from, you can also use a specific version or architecture type, by replacing :latest with one of the tags

For all available options, and to learn more, see the Docker Run Docs

Dashy is also available through GHCR: `docker pull ghcr.io/lissy93/dashy:latest`

If you're deploying Dashy on a modern ARM-based board, such as a Raspberry Pi (2+), then you'll need to use one of Dashy's ARM images. Set the base image + tag to either `lissy93/dashy:arm64v8` or `lissy93/dashy:arm32v7`, depending on your system architecture. You can also use the `multi-arch` image, which should work on all system architectures.

The image defaults to `:latest`, but you can instead specify a specific version, e.g. `docker pull lissy93/dashy:release-1.5.0`

# Using Docker Compose

Using Docker Compose can be useful for saving your specific config in files, without having to type out a long run command each time. Save compose config as a YAML file, and then run `docker compose up -d` (optionally use the `-f` flag to specify file location, if it isn't located at `./docker-compose.yml`), `-d` is detached mode (not running in the foreground of your terminal). Compose is also useful if you are using clusters, as the format is very similar to stack files, used with Docker Swarm.

The following is a complete example of a `docker-compose.yml` for Dashy. Run it as is, or uncomment the additional options you need.

```
---
version: "3.8"
services:
  dashy:
    # To build from source, replace 'image: lissy93/dashy' with 'build: .'
    # build: .
    image: lissy93/dashy
    container_name: Dashy
    # Pass in your config file below, by specifying the path on your host machine
    # volumes:
      # - /root/my-config.yml:/app/public/conf.yml
    ports:
      - 4000:80
    # Set any environmental variables
    environment:
      - NODE_ENV=production
    # Specify your user ID and group ID. You can find this by running `id -u` and `id -g`
    #  - UID=1000
    #  - GID=1000
    # Specify restart policy
    restart: unless-stopped
    # Configure healthchecks
    healthcheck:
      test: ['CMD', 'node', '/app/services/healthcheck']
      interval: 1m30s
      timeout: 10s
      retries: 3
      start_period: 40s
```

You can use a different tag, by for example setting image: `lissy93/dashy:arm64v8`, or pull from GHCR instead by setting `image: ghcr.io/lissy93/dashy`.

If you are building from source, and would like to use one of the other Dockerfiles, then under `services.dashy` first set `context: .`, then specify the the path to the dockerfile, e.g. dockerfile: `./docker/Dockerfile-arm32v7`

